CS 6314 - Assignment#3
Due Date: 11/9/25, 11:59 pm
In this assignment, you are supposed to develop a web application for travel
deals using HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, XML and JSON. The app should
have 7 web pages, including stays, flights, cars, cruise, contact-us, and cart
Using an external css (mystyle.css), add the following layout to all web pages.
Please note for the navigation bar, you must have links to all 6 web pages in your
web application.
1. Display current local date and time in your web application.
2. Validate user inputs in the contact-us page as following ( You are supposed to
use regular expression for validation in this part)
• The user must enter first name, last name, phone number, gender ( as a
radio box), email address, and comment.
• The first name and last name should be alphabetic only
• The first letter of first name and last name should be capital
• The first name and the last name can not be the same
• Phone number must be formatted as (ddd)ddd-dddd
• Email address must contain @ and .
• Gender must be selected
• The comment must be at least 10 characters
You should validate the user inputs when the user clicks a “submit” button in the
contact page. If the user doesn’t enter valid information as specified above, you
must prompt the user to enter valid information. After validating the above user
inputs, store them in a JSON file.
3. Allow users to change font size of main content and background color of your
web application.
4. In the flight webpage, the user should be able to choose the type of trip. If the
user chooses one way trip, the user should be able to enter the origin,
destination, and departure date. If the user chooses a round trip, the user
should be able to enter the origin, destination, departure date for departing
flight and arriving flight. In the flight webpage, there should be a passenger
icon. If the user clicks on the passenger icon, a form should be displayed. In
this form, the user also should be able to enter the number of passengers for
each category (adults, children, or infants). When the user clicks search
button, after validating the user inputs, you should display all the above
information entered by the user. If any user input is not valid, you should inform
the user.
Validate user inputs for this page as following
• The user must enter departure date anytime between Sep 1, 2024 to Dec
1st 2024.
• Origin and destination must be a city in Texas or California
• Number of passengers for each category can not be more than 4
• Create a JSON file for the all available flights. The JSON file should include
information about available flights including flight-id, origin, destination,
departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, number of available
seats and price for at least 50 flights between a city in Texas and a city in
California be-tween Sep 1, 2024 to Dec 1st 2024.
• If the user selected a one way trip, when the user clicks the search button, if
the entered information are valid, you should also display the information (flightid, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time,
and number of available seats) for all available flights from the requested origin
to the requested destination that will depart on the requested departure date.
The available flight must have enough available seats for all passengers. If
there is not any available flights on the requested departure date, you should
display the information for available flights within 3 days before and after the
requested departure date. The user should be able to select a flight and place it
in the cart.
• In the cart page, you should display the information of the selected flight (flightid, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time).
You also need to display total price for all passenger’s tickets. Infant ticket is
10% of the adult ticket price. Children ticket is 70% of the adult ticket price. The
user should be able to book the flight after entering first name, last name, date
of birth and SSN for each passenger . Finally, you need to assign a unique
book-ing number to the flight in the cart and display all the information of
booked flight (user-id, booking number, flight-id, origin, destination, departure
date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time) and all passengers (SSN, first
name, last name, and date of birth) . User-id is unique number for the user who
booked the flight. You should also need to update the number of available seats
in the JSON file accordingly.
• If the user selected round trip, when the user clicks the search button, if the
entered information are valid, you should also display the information (flight-id,
origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, and
number of available seats) for all available flights from the requested origin to
the requested destination that will depart on the requested departure date for
for departing flight and returning flight. The available flights must have enough
available seats for all passengers. If there is not any available flights on the requested departure date, you should display the information for available flights
within 3 days before and after the requested departure date. The user should
be able to select a flight as departing flight and a flight as returning flight. and
place them in the cart.
• In the cart page, you should display the information of the selected departing
flight and returning flight (flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival
date, departure time, arrival time). You also need to display total price for all
passenger for both departing flight and returning flight. Infant ticket is 10% of
the adult ticket price. Children ticket is 70% of the adult ticket price. The user
should be able to book both departing flight and returning flight after entering
first name, last name, date of birth and SSN for each passenger . Finally, you
need to assign a unique booking number to both departing flight and returning
flight in the cart and display all the information of booked flights (User-id,
booking number, flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date,
departure time, arrival time) and all passengers (SSN, first name, last name,
and date of birth). You should also store all all the information of booked flights
in a JSON file. You should also need to update the number of available seats in
the JSON file accordingly. User-id is a unique number for the user who booked
the flight.
5. In the stays webpage, the user should be able to enter the name of city, the
check in date, check out date, number of guesses for each category (adults,
children, or infants). When the user clicks a search button, after validating the
user inputs, you should display all the information entered by the user. You
should also display the number of rooms the user needs. If any user input is
not valid, you should inform the user.
Validate user inputs for this page as following ( You should not use regular
expression for validation in this part)
• The user must enter check in date, and check out date anytime between
Sep 1, 2024 to Dec 1st 2024.
• The city must be a city in Texas or California
• Number of guesses can not be more than 2 for each room. However infants
can stay with adults even if the number of guesses exceeds 2
• Create a XML file for the all available hotels. The XML file should include in
formation about available hotels including hotel-id, hotel name, city, number of
available rooms, date and price per night for at least 20 hotels.
• When the user clicks the search button, if the entered information are valid, you
should display the information (hotel-id, hotel name, city, check in date, check
out date, and price per night ) for all available hotels in the requested city. The
user should be able to select a hotel and place it in the cart. In the cart page,
you should display the information of the selected hotel (hotel-id, hotel name,
city, number of guesses per category, check in date, check out date, number of
rooms, and price per night for each room , and total price). If the user clicks the
book button, you should store all information in the cart (user-id, booking
number, hotel-id, city, hotel name, check in date, check out date, number of
guesses per category, number of rooms, and price per night for each room ,
and total price) in a JSON file and update available rooms in the available
hotels XML file . You need to assign a unique book-ing number to the booked
hotel. User-id is a unique number for the user who booked the hotel.
6. In the car webpage, the user should be able to enter the name of city, type of
car, the check in date, and check out date . When the user clicks a submit button, after validating the user inputs, you should display all the information
entered by the user. If any user input is not valid, you should inform the user.
Please note that you are supposed to use DOM methods to develop this page.
Validate user inputs for this page as following
• The user must enter check in date, and check out date anytime between Sep 1,
2024 to Dec 1st 2024.
• The type of car can be economy, SUV, Compact or midsize
Create a XML file for the all available cars. The XML file should include information
about available cars including car-id, the name of city, type of car, the check in date,
and check out date, and price per day for at least 20 cars
On this page, you are supposed to suggest available cars that match the user's
interests and preferences based on their previous booking information. This allows
users to easily select and add their preferred cars to the cart after entering only their
check-in and check-out dates, streamlining the booking process. If the user selects a
suggested car and clicks the book button, you should store all information of the cart
(User-id, booking number, car-id, the name of city, type of car, the check in date, and
check out date, and price per day for at least 20 cars , and total price) in a XML file and
update available cars in the available cars XML file accordingly. You need to assign a
unique book-ing number to the booked car. User-id is a unique number for the user who
booked the car.
7. In the cruise page, the user should be able to enter a destination , enter departing
between, duration of cruise (minimum and maximum), and number of guesses per
category. When the user clicks a submit button, after validating the user inputs, you
should display all the information entered by the user. If any user input is not valid, you
should inform the user. Please note that you are supposed to use jQuery methods to
develop this page.
Validate user inputs for this page as following
• The destination should be Alaska, Bahamas, Europe, or Mexico
• For duration of cruise (minimum and maximum), minimum can not be less than 3 and
maximum can not be greater than 10 days
• Departing between can be anytime between Sep 1, 2024 to Dec 1st 2024.
• Number of guesses can not be more than 2 for each room. However infants can stay
with adults even if the number of guesses exceeds 2 







New Instructions:


CS 6314 - Assignment#4
Due Date: 12/3/25, 11:59 pm
n this assignment, you are supposed to develop a web application for travel
deals using HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, XML,JSON, Ajax, PHP and Mysql.
The app should have 7 web pages, including stays, flights, contact-us, register,
login, cart and my-account
Using an external css (mystyle.css), add the following layout to all web pages.
Please note for the navigation bar, you must have links to all 7 web pages in your
web application.
1. Add a register web page to your web application to register users. You should
ask each user to enter Phone number, Password , FirstName, LastName, Date
of birth, Email, and Gender (as radio button) . Before registering each user,
you should validate the user’s inputs as following
• User must enter Phone number, Password , FirstName, LastName, Date
of birth, and Email. Gender is not a required user input.
• Phone number is a unique number. User can not use a phone number
that already has been used by another user.
• Phone number must be formatted as ddd-ddd-dddd
• User must enter the same Password two times.
• The Password must be at least 8 characters.
• Date of birth must have 2 digits for month, 2 digits fore day, and four digits for year
• Email must contain @ and .com
If the user inputs are not valid, prompt the user. After validating the user’s inputs,
you should insert the user’s information into the “users” table in your database.
Users table has 7 fields including Phone number, Password , FirstName, LastName, Date of birth, Gender, and Email. Phone number is a unique number in
the table. After inserting the above information into the table successfully, you
should prompt the user. The User should be able to log in to your web application
using her/his Phone number and the password. Phone number for the admin
should be 222-222-2222.
2. Display current local date and time in your web application.
3. After login to the web application, the user should be able to see his/her first
name, and last name in all webpages.
4. After login to the web application, user should be able to submit a comment in
the contact page. The comment must be at least 10 characters. You should
validate the user input when the user clicks a “submit” button in the contact
page. If the user doesn’t enter valid information as specified above or did not
login to the web application, you must prompt the user to login and enter valid
information. After validating the user input, assign a unique number (contact-id)
to the comment and store Contact-id, Phone number, FirstName, LastName,
Date of birth, Email, and Gender in a XML file
5. Allow users to change font size of main content and background color of your
web application.
6. Create a JSON file for the all available flights. The JSON file should include
in-formation about available flights including flight-id, origin, destination,
depar-ture date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, number of available
seats and price for at least 50 flights between a city in Texas and a city in
California between Sep 1, 2024 to Dec 1st 2024. The admin should be able
to load the JSON file into the “flights” table in the database after login to the
webpage and in the my-account page. Flights table should have 9 fields,
including flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure
time, arrival time, number of available seats and price.
7. After login to the web application, in the flight webpage, the user should be
able to choose the type of trip. If the user chooses one way trip, the user
should be able to enter the origin, destination, and departure date. If the user
chooses a round trip, the user should be able to enter the origin, destination,
departure date for departing flight and arriving flight. In the flight webpage,
there should be a passenger icon. If the user clicks on the passenger icon, a
form should be displayed. In this form, the user also should be able to enter
the number of passengers for each category (adults, children, or infants).
When the user clicks search button, after validating the user inputs, you should
display all the above information entered by the user. If any user input is not
valid, you should inform the user.
Validate user inputs for this page as following
• The user must enter departure date anytime between Sep 1, 2024 to Dec 1st
2024.
• Origin and destination must be a city in Texas or California
• Number of passengers for each category can not be more than 4
• If the user selected a one way trip, when the user clicks the search button, if
the entered information are valid, you should retrieve and display the information (flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time,
arrival time, and number of available seats) for all available flights from the requested origin to the requested destination that will depart on the requested
departure date. The available flights should be retrieved from “flights” table in
your database and must have enough available seats for all passengers. If
there is not any available flights on the requested departure date, you should
retrieve and display the information for available flights within 3 days before
and after the requested departure date. The user should be able to select a
flight and place it in the cart.
• In the cart page, you should display the information of the selected flight (flightid, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time).
You also need to display total price for all passenger. Infant ticket is 10% of the
adult ticket price. Children ticket is 70% of the adult ticket price. The user
should be able to book the selected flight after entering first name, last name,
date of birth and SSN for each passenger. When the user books a flight for all
passengers, you need to assign a unique flight booking id to the selected flight
in the cart and assign a unique ticket id to each ticket (one booking may have
several tickets; one ticket for each passenger) and insert booking, tickets, and
passenger information in “flight-booking” table , “ticket” table , and passenger
table. You also need to update available number of seats of the booked flight in
the flights table.
Flights table should have 9 fields, including flight-id, origin, destination, departure
date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, number of available seats and
price. Fight-id is a unique number
Passenger table has 5 fields, including SSN, first name, last name, date of birth ,
and category (adults, children, or infants). SSN is a unique number
Flight-booking table has 3 fields, including flight-booking-id, flight-id, total price
for all passengers
Tickets table has 4 fields, including ticket-id, flight-booking-id, SSN, and price for
the passenger. Ticket-id is a unique number
• After booking the selected flight, you should display all the information of the
booked flight (flight-booking-id, flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, total price for all passengers). You
should also display ticket information for each passengers (ticket-id, flight-booking-id, SSN, first name, last name, date of birth, and price for each ticket) .
• If the user selected round trip, when the user clicks the search button, if the entered information are valid, you should also display the information (flight-id,
origin, destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, and
number of available seats) for all available flights from the requested origin to
the requested destination that will depart on the requested departure date for
for departing flight and returning flight. The available flights must have enough
available seats for all passengers. If there is not any available flights on the requested departure date, you should display the information for available flights
within 3 days before and after the requested departure date. The user should
be able to select a flight as departing flight and a flight as returning flight. and
place them in the cart.
• In the cart page, you should display the information of the selected departing
flight and returning flight (flight-id, origin, destination, departure date, arrival
date, departure time, arrival time). You also need to display total price for all
passenger for both departing flight and returning flight. Infant ticket is 10% of
the adult ticket price. Children ticket is 70% of the adult ticket price. The user
should be able to book both departing flight and returning flight after entering
first name, last name, date of birth and SSN for each passenger . When the
user books a flight for all passengers, you need to assign a unique flight booking id to both departing flight and returning flight in the cart and assign a unique
ticket id to each ticket (one booking may have several tickets; one ticket for departing flight and one ticket for returning flight for each passenger) and insert
booking, tickets, and passenger information in “flight-booking” table , “ticket”
table , and passenger table. You also need to update available number of seats
of the booked flight in the flights table.
Flights table should have 9 fields, including flight-id, origin, destination, departure
date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, number of available seats and
price. Fight-id is a unique number
Passenger table has 5 fields, including SSN, first name, last name, date of birth ,
and category (adults, children, or infants). SSN is a unique number
Flight-booking table has 3 fields, including flight-booking-id, flight-id, total price
for all passengers
Tickets table has 4 fields, including ticket-id, flight-booking-id, SSN, and price for
the passenger. Ticket-id is a unique number
• After booking the selected departing flight and returning flight, you should display all the information of the booked flights (flight-booking-id, flight-id, origin,
destination, departure date, arrival date, departure time, arrival time, total price
for all passengers). You should also display ticket information for departing
flight and for returning flight for each passengers (ticket-id, flight-booking-id,
SSN, first name, last name, date of birth, and price for each ticket.
8- After login to the web application, in the stays webpage, the user should be
able to enter the name of city, the check in date, check out date, number of
guesses for each category (adults, children, or infants). When the user clicks
a search button, after validating the user inputs, you should display all the
information entered by the user. You should also display the number of rooms
the user needs. If any user input is not valid, you should inform the user.
Validate user inputs for this page as following
• The user must enter check in date, and check out date anytime between Sep 1,
2024 to Dec 1st 2024.
• The city must be a city in Texas or California
• Number of guesses can not be more than 2 for each room. However infants
can stay with adults even if the number of guesses exceeds 2
• Create a XML file for the all available hotels. The XML file should include information about available hotels including hotel-id, hotel name, city and price
per night for at least 20 hotels. For simplicity, we assume hotels always have
available rooms. The admin should be able to load the XML file into the “hotels” table in the database after login to the webpage and in the my-account
page. Hotels table should have 4 fields, including hotel-id, hotel name, city and
price per night
• When the user clicks the search button, if the entered information are valid, you
should retrieve and display the information (hotel-id, hotel name, city, and price
per night ) for all available hotels in the requested city from hotels table. The
user should be able to select a hotel and place it in the cart. In the cart page,
you should display the information of the selected hotel (hotel-id, hotel name,
city, number of guesses per category, number of rooms, check in date, and
check out date, price per night for each room , and total price).
• The user should be able to book the selected hotel after entering first name,
last name, date of birth and SSN for each guess . When the user books a hotel
for all guesses, you need to assign a unique hotel booking id to to the selected
hotel in the cart and insert booking information in “hotel-booking” table and
“guesses" table.
Hotel table has 4 fields, including hotel-id, hotel name, city, and price per night
Guesses table has 6 fields, including SSN, hotel-booking-id, first name, last
name, date of birth , and category (adults, children, or infants). SSN is a unique
number
Hotel-booking table has 7 fields, including hotel-booking-id, hotel-id, check in
date, and check out date, number of rooms, price per night for each room , and
total price
• After booking the selected hotel, you should display all the information of the
booked hotels (hotel-booking-id, hotel-id, hotel name, city, and price per night).
You should also display number of rooms, check in date, and check out date,
price per night for each room , and total price. You also need to display SSN,
first name, last name, date of birth , and category (adults, children, or infants)
for all guesses.
In the account page, the user should be able to retrieve all the information about
booked flights and booked hotels using hotel-booking id and Flight-booking-id
In the account page, the user should be able to retrieve information of all
passengers in a booked flights using Flight-booking-id
the user should be able to retrieve all the information of all booked flights and
booked hotels for SEP 2024
the user should be able to retrieve all the information about booked flights for
specific person using SSN
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all booked flights will
departure from a city in Texas from sep 2024 to oct 2024
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all information for
booked hotels in a a city in Texas from sep 2024 to oct 2024
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all information for
most expensive booked hotels
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all booked flights with
an infant passenger
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all booked flights with
an infant passenger and attest 5 children
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved all the information of
most expensive booked flights
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieve all the information
about booked flights departure from a city in Texas and have no infant passenger
In the account page, the admin should be able to retrieved the number of booked
flight that will arrive to a city in California on sep 2024 or oct 2024